The Shortcomings of Existing AI Systems

In the effort to raise a new AI from the ashes of the old, I am
seeking to understand the problems with the old, and to lay them out
here in exposition.

There is no system among those released publicly that can claim to
have intelligence, though there are programs which can do so.  They
simply have not yet been written, or if they have been written, not
yet released.

Let us look at the Cyc project.  Cyc is too high level.  It lacks
basic reasoning skills, though it has philosopher level understanding.
For the most part, it simply follows explicit inference programming.
Its actual ability to understand something, even something basic, is
very limited.  It focuses on having the correct language, no doubt a
powerful approach, but does not account for natural reasoning and
thinking skills, so that at best it is a data repository with a few
rules of inference.

It's ability to comprehend, reason analogically, make simple
observations, if they exist at all, are subsumed in its reasoning
systems.

A problem with Cyc is that it is kind of like teaching calculus to a
toddler.  It has too much "knowledge" as they call it, but it is not
really knowledge, it is simply factual at best.  What constitutes the
basis for true intelligence is not present.

Cyc has no imagination to wit.  I imagine imagination will be critical
to intelligence.

Other systems have similar failings.  They are all elaborate systems
with explicit forms of representation.  The algorithms are fully
understood, there is nothing mysterious or even emergent about them.
They are more like programming languages or libraries than intelligent
systems.

By focusing on performance immediately, they erect incomplete models,
rather than focusing on mechanism that derive the programming.

Still the basic paradox arises, how do you create the AI.  If you
program, you will get a program that is merely capable of following
its instructions.  You will have a library and everything you tried to
accomplish will slip through into the maintainence of that program.

If you do not program the AI, how do you create it?  Paradigms like
evolutionary programs are not sufficient either.

The real trick is how to with maximal minimal work, derive a novel
system that has enough power to learn.  Basic data representation is
not really sufficient.  If we must use a language, how can the
language be binding and conformant to the reality of the organism's
situation.

If we do model the organism on biological models, how do we know what
is relevant?

Maybe I can make a system with a metabolism.  Focusing on endowing
this will life-critical features, kind of like the hacktivism
self-regulating system.  And then build up from there mechanisms of
greater intelligence.

Things to note.

Feeds off of energy, a symbiote to the computer.  Maybe no survival by
spreading.
